Math Puzzles: Multi-Crypto
==========================

MultiCrypto is a simple puzzle generator to help kids work on their multiplication 
and subtraction, while feeling like a spy decoding a secret message. Each puzzle is 
generated from phrase, where each letter is represented by a math problem in the form of:

    (a x b) - (c x d)

with the result being an index between 1-26, representing a position in the decoder
key. The decoder key is passed into the PuzzleGenerator, with two helper functions
to build it for you:

- DecoderAlphabetic: returns "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz", where A=1, B=2, C=3, etc
- DecoderRandom:     returns a random shuffling of all characters from a-z, so if
                     "klcnogdwprftyxqismjvehabzu", then K=1, L=2, C=3

Check out [this example](EXAMPLE.md) of a MultiCrypto puzzle.


PuzzleGenerator
---------------

Every puzzle generated by the same instance of a PuzzleGenerator will share the same
decoder key. Each call to puzzleGenerator.GenerateDecoderKey() will return a random
representation of the key, with math problems for each letter. Likewise, each call to
puzzleGenerator.GeneratePuzzle(<some phase>) will return a random representation
of the phrase, with a math problem for each letter in it. Characters in the input
phrase that are not letters between a-z will be passed straight through to the result.


Example Usage
-------------

Take a look at the [command line example](cmdline/main.go):

    package main

    import (
        "fmt"
        "github.com/wblakecaldwell/mathpuzzles/multicrypto"
        "os"
    )

    func main() {
        if len(os.Args) == 1 {
            fmt.Println("Need a word or phrase!")
            os.Exit(1)
        }
        phrase := os.Args[1]

        // working on the standard 12x12 "times table", but without 1x's, since that's too easy!
        puzzleGenerator, err := multicrypto.NewPuzzleGenerator(2, 12, multicrypto.DecoderRandom())
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Println("Oops! Something went wrong building the Puzzle Generator!")
            os.Exit(1)
        }

        key, err := puzzleGenerator.GenerateDecoderKey()
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Println("Oops! Something went wrong generating the decoder key!")
            os.Exit(1)
        }
        puzzle, err := puzzleGenerator.GeneratePuzzle(phrase)
        if err != nil {
            fmt.Println("Oops! Something went wrong generating the puzzle!")
            os.Exit(1)
        }

        fmt.Println("Decoder Key\n-----------")
        for _, c := range key {
            fmt.Printf("%s: %s = ______\n", c.Letter, c.Clue)
        }

        fmt.Println("\n\n")
        fmt.Println("Secret Message\n--------------")
        for _, c := range puzzle {
            if c.IsMathProblem() {
                fmt.Printf("%s = ______\n", c.String())
            } else {
                fmt.Printf("%s\n", c.String())
            }
        }
    }

